I may be married to Ivonne but it's
Christine who's been on my mind for the
last 10 years a project Christine that
is at CES 2014 Razer unveiled an idea
that would completely change how we
build computers and I was amazed who
wouldn't be a modular high- performance
mineral oil cooled chassis Hardware
upgrades as easy as plugging in a USB
device maybe even easier but Christine's
promises were as empty as they were
enticing and every subsequent attempt
we've seen at this kind of modularity
has ultimately failed even from some
very big names which makes it all the
more surprising that a smaller
manufacturer kadz who sponsored today's
video is making a big move into the
space with an absolutely tiny modular
computer called The kadas Mind
workstation their approach is both
similar but also different from what
we've seen before remember Google's
Project Ara the philm that could be
assembled from building blocks to help
you get the perfect device for your
needs or how about Moto mods those ones
actually made it to Market in the form
of upgrade modules for your phone like
speakers battery packs and gam pads and
they probably bear the most resemblance
to what kadas is doing here you start
with a solid core Computing device and
then create an ecosystem of enhancements
for those who need it let's take a
closer look then at the Mind we've seen
small computers in the past but I don't
think we've ever SE seen something quite
so selt this thing is small like about
three times the volume of my phone small
but they still manage to cram a 12 core
Intel processor in here it Peaks at up
to 55 watts and is paired with 32 gigs
of 5200 megga transfer per second lpddr5
a 1 TB WD SN 740 MBM SSD and believe it
or not a battery it's only 5.55 wat
hours which if you're familiar with
laptops you'll know isn't very big but
the idea isn't that you're going to run
this thing away from the wall for an
extended period of time rather it's so
you can pop it into sleep mode take it
with you wherever you need to go and
then pick up right where you left off up
to 25 hours later it also doubles as a
handy battery backup should you ever
experience a power outage giving you
time to save your work and shut down
safely along the rear of the device
we've got our IO which some might find a
little disappointing both USBC ports
support 65 WTS of power delivery in but
only one of them runs at 10 GB per
second with the other stuck at USB 2.0
speeds for displays both the USBC ports
support DP alt mode and there's an HDMI
2.0 Port as well then there's two usba
10 gig ports all of which is pretty good
actually for a miniature PC so why the
sad face no ethernet which is kind of a
bummer on a
workstation however speaking of bums the
real party is on the bottom watch this
you can pop this little tab off down
here just like that for one of the
easiest m.2 storage upgrade processes
that I have ever seen and right next to
it is the Mind link high-speed connector
and the first mind it linked must have
been mine because the mind dock that
plugs into it solves pretty much all of
my complaints adding 2 and 1/2 gig
networking a metric whack of HDMI and
USB ports 3 and 12 mm combo Jack and an
SD card reader the dock also has a
fingerprint reader for Windows hello and
a volume knob that kind of reminds me
the ones on Logitech keyboards oh and
they threw in speakers for good measure
too bad the whole thing is let down by a
proprietary
interface what I would normally say
except it's a little less proprietary
than you might think the Mind link
connector is basically just a Juiced up
pcie by8 gen five connector with some
thoughtful additions first up it's much
more compact than a standard PCI slot
and for another it's much more robust
the slots that you see in a desktop PC
are going to be rated for dozens or at
most hundreds of Cycles but kadas
expects people to use this interface
potentially multiple times per day for
years at a time so their target was
10,000 Cycles so then I can do this
right wow the magnets really help make
it easy to abuse also their connector
allows future products to suck more
juice or even blow it I'm talking up to
200 watts in either direction much more
than the 75 Watts that you'll get over a
typical PD connector oh and did we
mention that it's hot pluggable yeah I
mean it is a bit of a downer that this
thing has no Thunderbolt 4 when the chip
does support it but if I was going to
plug a GPU into this thing I would
rather have the extra bandwidth not to
mention the lower latency of the Mind
link anyway of course they Envision an
ecosystem with more than just GPU
enclosures they are working on that in
addition to their dock but also a studio
style display and this twoin one tablet
thing I'm not sure about that last one
but the Mind Graphics is kind of a
no-brainer and we've asked them to
publish their pinout which could make
this interface a significant upgrade
over oculink where eight lanee is
possible but four is the norm not to
mention easier for the community to
embrace than XG mobile which is also by
8 pcie and hot pluggable but completely
closed and very expensive speaking of I
did a video about hot plug pcie some
years ago and it turns out that despite
having been part of the standards making
a hot swap PCI Express device is pretty
difficult and ripping a cart out of a
running system can cause anything from
weird Behavior to a full-on crash or
even Hardware damage so how is kadz
doing it the answer unfortunately is
substantially more complex than we can
get into but here's at least a rough
rundown when your PC boots up the system
takes note of all the components
installed and allocates memory to
properly serve all of those devices no
device no memory allocated since this is
all done by the UEFI bios before booting
into Windows a board or operating system
that is not prepared to dynamically
allocate new memory regions two new
devices is well it's not going to be
pretty there's also the hardware side of
things while your GPU might have all the
pins to fit in a 16x slot not all of
those pins may be used and if the pins
don't connect correctly or in the right
order it can cause a short or an
initialization error that can damage the
hardware or data so clearly this
requires many precautions so for this
reason even if kadas did publish their
pin out hot swapability of Homebrew
accessories would be very difficult but
with their own gear kadas managed to
nail
it let's see it in action let's start
with the mind with two displays
connected to it there those two
perfect oh crap the peripherals are
connected to the dock well you know what
fine you guys saw the two displays light
up let's go ahead and connect the other
two see how long this
takes come on hot plug PCI you can do it
I saw a flicker I saw action hey there
we go not too
bad why don't you put on crab RVE cuz
it's got speakers in it and
stuff that's the max volume which
honestly isn't very loud but to their
credit they don't distort at that level
so you'll have devices that'll go way
louder than that but they sound like
garbage past 60 70 80% whereas these
sound good all the way up to 100
considering how little it's doing right
now C PE temperatures are a little on
the high side at 56 on the package
but to its credit it's also quite quiet
so it seems like they haven't really
ramped up the cooling system now let's
see how it Gaines unfortunately kad's
egpu dock is not out yet but some
enterprising individuals are using that
super easy storage upgrade slot to put
an m.2 to oculink adapter in it then
running an oculink egpu
like this one from GPD which I mean
should work but we don't have one of
those you know
what that is a surprisingly wide Sound
Stage seriously
though the graphics performance is
terrible yeah we're getting 60 FPS but
oh my God look at
it we're at minimum boys oh okay medium
is not happen and maybe we'll fa better
in cyberpunk
realistic yeah okay it
works of course this is not the point of
a device like this the point of a device
like this is the cool interface which by
the way contains more than pcie also
display port and USB and let's check
just how hot pluggable is it oh right I
don't have a keyboard and mouse one
second one second no no I got this i got
this
oh wait for
it that is very hot pluggable I'm
actually amazed check this out boom
we're on the dock I think Windows is
give it a sec give it a sec I believe
whoa look at that undeniably very cool
sponsorship aside then this is Far and
Away the most refined attempt at a
modular ecosystem that I have ever seen
But it comes at a price I understand
that quality engineering costs money but
the kadas mind isn't cheap so All That
Remains is to see how the market will
respond if this looks like a solution
for you check out the link in the video
description to get a kadz mind of your
own and using the links in the
description below put in coupon code LTT
mind to get a $100 off a kadas
mind if you guys enjoyed this video why
don't you check out our video on the
Razer Tomahawk a modular Nook Style
concept that was co-produced with Intel
a few years back